But the numbers were still real small at 28,000
during that time frame, just as the numbers were
small with regard to blacks and all those things.
As you became involved, who did you get early on?
Did someone help you get? assigned as a student
body government assistant or anything? No,
because I jumped right into it. I jumped right into
it because that fall of my freshman year,
fall of 1973, I ran
for, I immediately ran for a freshman class
senator from the College of Agriculture. So I kind
of never was a fish aid or none of that kind of stuff.
I really never served a full term as a senator. I
mean, I never did. Some of the student body leaders
were encouraged through Wayne Stark and the MSC.
Others were core. So you're part of another group.
Yes. And there were some things in place,
actually, except they didn't come into play until
I served as student vice president, but there were
some things in place that encouraged
cross-pollinization between and amongst those
organizations. You know, they've got, oh, I heard
somebody mention that there are like 20,000
different leadership opportunities or whatever
it is on campus now. We had, really, during that
time frame, two, three, four, really four sort of
major leadership opportunities. One was student
government. At the time, it was organized a little
bit differently from the way it is run now, and I'll
get that in just a second. Secondly was the
Memorial Student Center that Wayne Stark ran and
provided that opportunity for kids to lead. And
then there was Corps of Cadets, of course, which
had always been a part of the routine. And then
there was the Residence Halls Association, which
was an organization basically made up of kids
living on campus.
Within that MSC hierarchy, there were other
activities in which students could participate,
whether it was a political forum or SCONA or, you
know, whatever, the opus, all of the various, very
many positive, worldly kinds of things that I
think Wayne Stark should be given a great deal of
credit for bringing to our university, and also
for giving kids an opportunity to participate,
and of course, thanks to the folks who gave money to
support it, like the Wiley Lecture Series, for
example, but to bring those kinds of things to
campus. At the time, student government was
organized in a fashion such that The president,
that each of the officers of, we really sort of had a
mixed bag. It really wasn't a separated
government in terms of the traditional
government sense. People ran for president,
people ran for one of the various vice presidents
that were available. One was academic affairs,
one was finance, one was rules and regs, one was
external affairs, and there was another one, and I
cannot remember what they said. Oh, student
services.
Each of those people ran independently. But
ultimately, when those people were elected, they
were automatically members of the Senate. So each
of those vice presidents served as members of the
legislative voting body, with the exception of
me, the president, who had a ex officio role but
could not vote. But there was this thing called the
executive committee. And the executive
committee was made up of these five vice
presidents. none of whom ran together on a ticket,
and this president, who did not have a vote, and the
speaker, who was the elected individual from the
Senate body, and the MSC president served as a
member of the executive committee. What I did when
I became president was I included the court
commander as a member of the executive committee
and expanded it in that fashion. Now, by the same
token, I served as a member of the MSC council,
which was the governing body of the, so there was
sort of like a swap out that occurred, but there was
A lot of, in fact, everybody who, ironically, the
guy who served as MSC president at that time and
other members of his council, the guy who was core
commander at that time, were also members of the
Senate, too. So we generally loaded it up, and so
you were engaged in two or three different
activities, and there was a great... A unifying,
not a dividing up. That is true. Now we still had
the, we still had the, you know, normal core
non-reg kind of a deal. Of course, percentage of
the student body was declining. And we still had
that. In fact, my race for student body president,
I ran against a guy, a guy from the Corps of Cadets,
and another guy who was a non-reg like myself.
won it on the first ballot. We didn't have to worry
about a runoff, which was kind of nice. Describe
your campaign. My campaign, the guy who was sort of
like my campaign chairman was a guy from Kenya who
had previously been vice president of academic
affairs, and his name was Rajesh Kent. And Raj
served as my campaign chairman, for whatever that
meant. And at that time, we had a limit on spending
associated with the campaigns of $100. And that
allowed me just about enough money to print up some
flyers. And there were really sort of only three
places on campus where you could put, which were
places in which they would allow you to put
campaign signs. And so by the time I bought the
plywood and the paint, to do my sign over by Kruger
Dunn, which caught all the guys and gals headed
from the court area kind of toward the Animal
Science Committee and then down toward the
Engineering Department. One over by Sabisa,
which was kind of to catch the kids on the north side
of campus, and one right by the MSC. That $100 went
away real fast. We didn't have websites like the
kids can do now, which I thought was quite
interesting during one of the most recent student
body president campaigns. And Raj tried
diligently to get me to go door to door and I did it
one afternoon for about four doors and I said, I'm
not going to do this. I'm going to do what I can to get
my message out and hopefully this is going to work.
And that was it. And it did. But a lot of it again. I
sort of lucked out in the sense that I had this
constituency there that still there were tons of
kids who came from agricultural backgrounds or
who lived in towns that I'd been in their, you know,
Temple High School, speaking to a high school
assembly or whatever from my FFA days. And there
were a lot of folks there that I knew or who knew of
me. And so I kind of got a cadre of individuals
together like, would you please go talk for me at
this collegiate FFA meeting or would you go talk
for me at this animal sciences, science,
engineering society meeting and that was the
summit substance of it. It was pretty quick. Do you
think that all of your student activities had any
effect on your grade point ratio? No, none. I kid
the kids now because they talk about the reason
it's taking five and a half, six years to get out of
school. I'm on your side on that one. Because
there's just so many student activities in which
they can be involved in. And their involvement in
them, they just don't have time. So therefore,
they take 12 hours a semester. There was not a
single semester during my very short time when we
started counting up months at Texas A&M. There was
not a single semester where I took less than a full
load. And I considered a full load at least 16
hours. My last semester as an undergraduate, I
took 22 hours and got a 4-0. And the same was the case
with my one semester in graduate school, where I
took 12 hours, which is a full load from a graduate
student perspective. And I managed to balance all
of that with the seemingly interminable meetings
that arose as a result of my activities as a student
leader. At the time, too, there were a lot of other
roles. It wasn't just going to a Senate meeting
every other week, or it wasn't going to an
executive committee meeting every Sunday night,
but it was also doing the MSC Council stuff. And
various and sundry ones of us, because of the
leadership roles we had, were student
representatives, voting student
representatives, in fact. on a number of the
university committees. For example, I served as a
member of the academic council. Our vice
president from rules and regs served on the rules
and regs committee for the university. I also
served on the athletic council. So there were a
number of other activities that were sort of
automatic that came as a result of the leadership
roles that we occupied. But in the final analysis,
the impact that they had on my grades was kind of
zero. Let's see. Back to the student routine. What
was your normal dress for class? What did you
normally wear to class? My normal dress for class
was blue jeans and even a no collared or a sometimes
collared shirt. I wore boots a lot.
I wore tennis a lot. There were days that my dress
was different because of the fact that I might have
other activities to do during the day that require
a coat and tie. For example, some luncheon or some
speech or representing a student body in some
capacity. But that was more toward my last year on
campus. Otherwise, it was pretty
student-oriented. Of course, in the summer and a
half that I went to summer school, it was shorts and
t-shirts kind of a deal. Throughout all this, too,
I was also involved with singing cadets. And so
there were some times when that required my dress
to be different. Let's do the singing cadets. Bob
Boone was a conductor. Again, a very, very weird
experience for me. I auditioned for the singing
cadets in the fall of 1973 when I finally started my
freshman year in earnest and was a bufo, which name
given to a first-year member of the same cadet,
which is a term that comes from the comic opera.
And, you know, you had to wear a key, a wooden key,
and you had to go get signatures and, you know, drop
handles, look out. In fact, this was probably the
closest to the Corps in terms of some of the
traditions associated with the Corps that I got
was because of my Senate cadet involvement, which
the Senate cadets had sort of appropriated. And
there were several members, I guess at the time
probably 15 or 20% of the guys were also in the Corps
of Cadets. And so that sort of worked real well. But
then I dropped out. And so I missed that
experience. Indeed, I missed going, I think that
was the summer, I think 74 was the summer that the
Singh Cadets went to Romania. And I missed going to
Romania because I was off playing at the
Fayetteville. came back and had to be a Bufo again
in the fall of 1974. And I continued to, as a member
singer, that's the 74, 75 still year. And I guess I
did 75, 76. And when I was elected student body
president, I dropped out of the room, because that
was just going to be too much time. But Bob Boone was
the rector. Let's see. There's another piece I
want to throw into, which may or may not be sort of
relevant to what you're thinking about. When you
ask me about dress,
when I initially started in the fall of 1973, I
lived on campus, as I had done that summer session
before when I lived in McInnis.
And then I dropped out for a year, and because of
sort of the way I sort of got back into school the
fall of 74. I lived off campus with some friends in
the fall of 74 and moved back on campus to McInnis
again in the spring of 75. I lived there for, I
guess, another year. So living on campus had a lot
to do with dress as well because if you needed to go
change during the course of the day, it was easy to
run back over to the north side of campus and take
that change if you needed to. It became a little bit
more difficult once I moved off campus again,
which I did, I guess, the fall of 75.
I'm guessing now that in your day, people didn't
yet have backpacks.
You're right. Now that I think about that, you kind
of had to carry them under your arm. I don't
remember ever having a backpack. I don't know what
we did when it rained, because it always used to
rain on Tuesdays and Thursdays at about 1.45 in the
afternoon when I had to walk from the engineering
building to the academic building. I remember
those days pretty clearly. I don't know what we
did. And y'all didn't wear shaggy, deliberately
worn-out jeans yet. No, but you'd wear some faded
ones because it was just tons of washing, but it
would be sort of equally faded. But it was not with
big holes in the knees. No, no. And no sandals yet.
No sandals. Well, but not a whole lot. And most
people still had a haircut and still shaved. Now,
wait a minute. No, no, no, no, wait a minute. That's
how one wants to describe that. I had an afro during
that time frame, which was sort of like the
going... In fact, there is a picture, which I'm
most ashamed of, of the student leaders that we
took. I guess this was when I was, was it when I was a
speaker or when I was president, I can't remember.
And we took it, the fountain was off, of course, but
in the fountain between the Board of Regents annex
and the main part of the MSC, there on the south end.
In fact, every time I walk by there and I think about
that gross picture,
that are varying heights that water normally
cascades over. We were kind of standing and
sitting there. And I've got this huge afro. I'm
wearing it. polyester leisure suit jacket. Now
this would have been when you were... It was like
75. You're not yet president of the student body.
No, it's a student leader picture. And I can't
remember whether it was when I was speaker and it's
in the 75 Aggieland or whether or not it's in the 76.
Doesn't really make a difference. Guys have long
hair. Some of the other student leaders have. Some
of the other student leader guys have long hair.
I've got long hair. We're not polyester finest.
And I
would have had, when I came to, well, I would have
had a mustache, but for the fact that I was in St.
Cadets. And facial hair was not permitted in St.
Cadets. But
I'm pretty, well, I'm not sure. I have to go back and
look. But I'm pretty sure that I would be willing to
bet you that when I got out of St. Cadets, I would
have had a mustache go back, which I've had since
then. One of the questions I've enjoyed asking,
please recall some of the jokes, pranks, and other
good bull that you may have known about during your
years at A&M. If you start down that path,
oh, let me see. There were so many, it's kind of hard
to... Well, share some of them. I'll share one of
them. There was a... I know of a guy who used to live
in McInnis who was a pre-med student. He's now a
physician. And for some reason he managed to get
back to his room with various pieces of equipment
from the chemistry labs that he was involved in,
primarily plastic tubing, which somehow created
a nice set of materials that aided in the creation
of a catapult type mechanism which could be used
against aggressively against individuals who
happen to park in the lot outside of Schumacher
particularly when various fruits and vegetables
were retrieved from Savisa during mealtimes that
were stored
behind the tiles in the ceiling in the event that a
certain residence hall person came by to look for
any culprits associated with those activities
flying off the fourth stoop of McKinnis. That's
one that always sticks out pretty much. I'll have
to think about some others. You know, I, or like the
night that a bunch of things that we were sort of
forced by a member of the Board of Regents to go sing
during the middle of the week, sing cadets, to go
sing in Wortham, Texas. And none of us wanted to do
it, not a single one of us. And we were kind of angry
because some board member had beveled enough to
force us to do that. which, by the way, has a great
deal to do with my attitude. I was able to live with
four regions now. And I remember returning home. I
lived in an apartment during that time frame, so I
was in the back of an apartment complex. I remember
returning home and seeing police cars about 12.30
at night at my apartment. There had been an
altercation between a roommate of mine and a young
lady, and Uh, when the police came by to talk to my
roommate, uh, they walked into our apartment and
noticed that it was decorated in early road sign
and contained items that had once existed in the
commons area.
Which various of my roommates had collected over
the years. Uh, they didn't have too much problem
with the ones that, you know, Gawock Creek or, or
Brazos River, it was the stops and the yield signs
in the one way that didn't sit too kindly with the
college station police.
Another one of those points, fortunately, that a
better judgment prevailed. Alright, do you
remember any played on you? No, I actually avoided
them. I avoided them pretty well. I was nice to
everybody, so nobody ever played me. I kept
getting threatened by my buddies in the court if
they were going to quad me, just for a good bowl. So
the student body president didn't get it? This is
when I was student body president, yeah. They kept
threatening that they were going to quad me, and
what I did to overcome that was, and this is really
sort of, I think, another one of the reasons that I
was elected student body president. During the
time that I was a junior, or whatever is equivalent
to my junior year, I guess, when I was Speaker. And I
continued this actually throughout my time as a
senior. A number of the guys on CORE's staff were
good friends of mine, or had become good friends of
mine. And, you know, so like, I guess Dunkin'
wasn't open, Sabisa wasn't open on Sunday night,
CORE used to go, or you had to go find someplace else
to eat if you didn't live in an apartment or
something. There weren't just a whole hell of a lot
of restaurants to choose one from. In fact, one of
our favorites, because I'd just go join up the
Corps guys on Sunday night and we'd go in or
something, or a number of them. And one of our
favorites was the Rockies, which at that time was
located down this dirt road in the middle of the
woods, which I think is now about the location of
the Albertsons, or thereabouts. And I mean, there
just weren't a whole lot of choices of places to go,
but we did that sort of regularly. What was the name
of it? Jose? Did he operate? I can't remember who
operated. I can't remember the name. But that was
sort of like a Sunday night ritual. And so they
really never did me in, which I looked at. If you and
your buddies were going to go partying. Partying?
Yeah. On a Saturday night? No, Thursday night was a
big one. Oh, Thursday night? Where? It was
Thursday and Saturday. Back then and now, and I
guess really this is something which I've learned
since, it's really sort of a big night for
partying, if you will, on college campuses all
throughout the country. But Thursday night was a
big night for Lakey, for guys who wanted to go
country and western dances. I never sat,
ironically, as much of a country and western fan as
I am, and much of an agricultural background. I
have never to this day sat for Lakey. But a lot of my
buddies did it a very long time ago. The other place
was at the western, you know, eastern entrance to
campus, the Magnum trips. God, I can't believe I
can't remember the name of this place. It's set on
the right hand side. Eastgate? Yeah, on Eastgate.
Right as you come out from the system
administration building. I'll try to remember
the name of it. But that was the big hangout. A lot of
Corps guys hung out there. Um, there was a thing
open for a while called the Sports Club, which is
sort of where the athletes hung out, which is at
Northgate, uh, sort of near the International
House of Painters, and it was the last thing in that
little shopping center there. And then during the
time that I was in school, 1974, um, the Dixie
Chicken opened, which is great for those of us who
lived on the north side of campus because you sort
of walk across the street and do your deal and
stumble back. There was another thing going on in
campus during this time too. When I started school
in July of 73, it was the first year that
18-year-olds were allowed to join the
constitutional amendment that had passed. And so
that sort of changed the nature of it too because of
the ability to go to various places around town
because of the change of the 18 year old. It was no
longer a forbidden. It was no longer a forbidden
place, and that's probably one of the reasons that
Don opened the chicken right there across from
campus, as did some other things that opened later
on. I do not think as well, let me add to this,
I do not remember yet Being a time frame, however,
where I would say that kids drank to excess, I think
it was fairly responsible. And if they were
drinking, what beverages were they drinking?
Beer. It was basically beer. And you could get
mixed drinks over at the sports club. And then
there was a joint on Welbert Highway, the name of
which I cannot remember, but that was sort of where
kind of rock kids hung out. I mean, people kind of
went to their places. Uncle Ed's Hard Liquors was
gone, wasn't it? Uncle Ed's wasn't there. No, that
was not there. What about Whiskey Bridge? Whiskey
Bridge wasn't there. That building has now been
leveled, by the way. Yeah, no, that wasn't there.
God, I can't believe I can't remember the name of
the place outside the system building. I will
remember, because I had a very, very, very public
incident there when I was student body president
that will forever stick in my
memory. That was, I chalk it up to being the only
negative known racial incident known to me. Oh.
Racial incident that I was ever exposed to during
my time in college. Would you share that? I will,
and I wish I could think of the name of the place,
which is That's what's amazing. I can't remember.
It was a pizza place. Oh,
gosh. It has more poignancy if I can remember the
name of it. I can't remember the name of it. Anyway,
it was the year that I was student vice president.
It was after the Rice A&M football game. And I think
we won. I believe so. And I had gone in and was
meeting some student government and other corps
buddies. There was a big corps hanging out there.
Those guys hung out a lot there. And I was sitting
back in the back of the bar with some friends and
this person who was a friend or an acquaintance of
mine. Put him in the acquaintance category from
that day forward. who was also a student leader on
campus. And I won't go any further than that
because it is probably, it only takes one more
identifier and we'll know who that person is.
Ironically in the room too, this is really kind of a
strange story, but ironically in the bar as well
was a friend of mine, in fact probably the first
person that I met on campus. When I came there, his
son was 73. He also knew this individual very well.
And the individual walks in the door. It's not
called
Charlie's,
but what was the name of the place? I'm going to ask.
God, I can't believe I can't remember. We'll think
of it. We'll think of it. He walks in the door,
swings over the door, spies me in the back of the
room. In fact, I probably wasn't the only black
person in the room. And he yells at the very top of
his lungs, above the den of the crowd, oh my God,
look at the nigger, he's here. And he just sort of
kept saying that. And he obviously had been
drinking in excess. And I, which he sort of had a
problem with, And I was trying to figure out how to
respond to it, if at all. And ironically, this guy
who was one of the first persons, people that I met
on campus, whom I heard on many other occasions,
utter racial epithets about people who were other
than black people, who just hears this person say
this, and heads toward the door where this
individual came in, grabbed him by his shirt
collar, slammed him up against the wall, and
basically said, told him, shut up. And if he ever
said that again, particularly in an environment
like that, he's going to beat the crap out of him.
And this friend was big enough to do that, and angry
enough to do that. And fortunately, I didn't have
to do anything. And I probably knew 90% of the
people in the bar very well, first names. You know,
I could see the next day if I had responded in some
different fashion than both the Brian Eagle and
the battalion that had a wonderful story about the
student vice president getting into a fight at
this bar, the name of which I cannot remember what
it is right now. That was really the only incident
that I was aware of that I ever dealt with any sort of
racial problem during my time there. My
suspicion, too, is that during that time, there
might have been 100, maybe 150 black kids on campus
out of 28,000. 80% of them were athletes. The rest
of us came there because of either parents in the
military and they decided they wanted to be in the
Corps and they, too, wanted to be in the military,
or there were people who came from the immediate
geographical area like Snook or Bryan or Caldwell
or that sort of, or Hempstead. Or others of us who
came there for special educational programs like
engineering or political culture. Was there a
special person that minority students turned to
for advice and counsel? There was no, there was no,
there was nobody who served in that capacity. Did
Did they need to be?
Did all these minority students get good
advising?
I think as a practical matter, yeah, we all got
great advising. And I think that goes back more,
Haskell, to the question of that thing that I
talked about earlier in terms of the
relationships between students.